# FairTrade: Achieving Pareto-Optimal Trade-offs Between Balanced Accuracy and Fairness in Federated Learning
As Federated Learning (FL) gains prominence in distributed machine learning applications, achieving fairness without compromising predictive performance becomes paramount. The data being gathered from distributed clients in an FL environment often leads to class imbalance. In such scenarios, balanced accuracy rather than accuracy is the true representation of model performance. However, most state-of-the-art fair FL methods report accuracy as the measure of performance,  which can lead to misguided interpretations of the model's effectiveness to mitigate discrimination. To the best of our knowledge, this work presents the first attempt towards achieving Pareto-optimal trade-offs between balanced accuracy and fairness in a federated environment (FairTrade). By utilizing multi-objective optimization, the framework negotiates the intricate balance between model's balanced accuracy and fairness. The framework's agnostic design adeptly accommodates both statistical and causal fairness notions, ensuring its adaptability across diverse FL contexts. We provide empirical evidence of our novel framework's efficacy through extensive experiments on five real-world datasets and comparisons with six competing baselines. The empirical results underscore the significant potential of our framework in improving the trade-off between fairness and balanced accuracy in FL applications.
## The datsets used in this project
* [Adult Census](https://archive.ics.uci.edu/dataset/2/adult)
* [Bank Marketing](https://archive.ics.uci.edu/dataset/222/bank+marketing)
* [Default](https://archive.ics.uci.edu/dataset/350/default+of+credit+card+clients)
* [Law School](https://github.com/iosifidisvasileios/FABBOO/blob/master/Data/law_dataset.arff)
## Code
